---
title: "Becca the Physicist"
permalink: /research/
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /research.html
---

> "Welcome to the nerd lab." -- GoGo Tomago

Physics is broken down into several subfields, and I classify as an
"experimental nuclear/particle physicist".  We use cutting-edge
technologies to observe interactions between particles and matter, and
use our observations to better understand the properties of both the
matter and the particles!  I am fascinated by the hands-down
_weirdest_ particle around: the neutrino.  Neutrinos are at most one
*millionth* of the mass of an electron and don't frequently interact
with anything.  There are billions of neutrinos that pass through your
thumbnail _every second_ just from the Sun, but on average, only 1
neutrino will interact within your whole body _in your lifetime_.  And
yet, despite their "ghostly" nature, their existence and limited
interactions have helped shape the universe!

I work with the [COHERENT](https://coherent.ornl.gov) collaboration
and study coherent elastic neutrino-nucleus scattering (CEvNS), a
process by which an incoming neutrino hits a target nucleus and causes
it to recoil as a whole.  Think about throwing a ping-pong ball at a
bowling ball; we study the ping-pong ball by investigating the
different reactions of the bowling ball!  CEvNS will cause the nucleus
(our "bowling ball") to recoil a smidge.  When this happens in a
scintillator, energy will be released to the material surrounding the
nucleus as light, and we can look for this light with a
photomultiplier tube.  Other types of detectors could look for moving
charges or thermal changes to identify CEvNS interactions.

My specific contributions to this collaboration focus on studying the
neutrino and neutron fluxes (the number of particles per area per
second) incident on our detectors.  The neutrino flux might be a
little more obviously important: we want to know how many neutrinos
will hit our detectors so that we can calculate how many events we
should see.  The neutron flux is just as mission-critical, because our
only experimental signal is a small nuclear recoil -- a neutron can
cause this too!  We need to know how many neutrons will be in our
detectors so that we don't accidentally count them as part of our
CEvNS signal.

[Neutrino flux simulations](nuFlux)

[Neutron flux monitoring](mars)

[SCGSR Award](https://www.cmu.edu/mcs/news-events/2020/1008_rapp-doe-scgsr-program.html)